we stopped at a waste water pumping
station by the side of the road
so this this is some so-called treated
water a study by the Indian Institute of
Technology found that even after
supposedly being treated the wastewater
from the tannery still contains
dangerously high levels of poisonous
chemicals such as arsenic and Mercury
apparently the water here comes out of
the pipe over there and it flows into
these channels and then it's used for
irrigation for providing water for crops
in the dry season but in the wet season
it just flows from here straight into
the river Ganges
[Music]
on the riverbank on the outskirts of the
city I met environmental campaigner
Rakesh Jai swab
Rakesh Thanks for meeting up with us can
you tell us what what is the state the
health of the river Ganges at this point
and can pour the river is effectively
dead no one ever thought this would
happen all the rubbish and sewage from
the city goes into the river Ganges
Khenpo has 400 tanneries they also
drained their poisonous water into the
Ganges will be gonna go meet each other
Rakesh showed me a channel he said was
carrying tannery effluent directly into
the river
so this channel here is just taking
filthy water straight into straight into
the Ganges yes this contains heavy
metals acids dyes and other chemicals
used by the tanneries subtool in there
it's all in there it's a poison in those
they take mouth full of Ganges water Oh
so can you imagine taking this water can
someone dare drink directly from gander
this place I don't I don't really
understand Hindus the faith teaches a
respect and love for nature this is the
sacred Ganges why are Indians doing this
to the Ganges even I can't understand
this this is the river we worship and
revere and whose waters we consider holy
yeah we remain silent about his
desecration
[Music]
tanneries claim the pollution is caused
by other towns and cities on the Ganges
and not by them
water and sanitation remains a colossal
issue in India up to 600 million people
here don't have access to a toilet one
study discovered the bacteria from
sewage in the Ganges was twelve thousand
times permissible levels for bathing
the Ganges and other Indian rivers are
horrific ly polluted and successive
Indian governments have failed to clean
them up
[Music]
you